RSE: instructions for grant applicants (#304)
AaltoSciComp/scicomp-docs: rse/grant-applicants.rst

For grant applicants
====================

.. warning::

>    Grant applicants, please don't rely on this yet.  It will be
>    finalized soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Grant applicants, if you are planning to use Aalto Research Software Engineers service, feel free to contact us at rse-group at aalto.fi, or fill out our `request form <https://selfservice.esupport.aalto.fi/ssc/app#/order/2026/>`__.
```

Author: You are right this should be more positive, but also it needs a big disclaimer that it is still a draft and hasn't been reviewed by everyone yet.  My plan was to merge before review by others, since many of the people who need to review it can't be expected to look at PRs.  I'll merge and update.

   This page is currently (2020-03) a draft for feedback.  Please send
   corrections to the person that send this page to you, or rse-group
   at aalto.fi

If you've decided you would like to use the :doc:`research software
engineer <index>` services in your project for a long period, you
might want to write it directly into your grant proposals.  First off,
your research will be better because you can you can assign

> porting/optimizing/scaling of codes, data management and open science,

Reviewer 2: > `codes`

Maybe I'm old, but I just can't get used to seeing this in plural. To me, "code" and "software" are bulk terms like water and milk.

Reviewer 3: I guess it's short for code bases or something similar. I've seen this enough that it doesn't stand out to me.

automation, and so on for the RSEs, while concentrating the main

> project resources on the actual research question.  Second it may make

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
project resources on the actual research question.  Second, it may make
```

> your proposal more attractive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your proposal more attractive.
```

How it works
------------

Short-term services are funded by various departments and schools and
free to projects (part of the "research environment" services).

> Longer term should be funded by projects - either an external grant or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Longer term service should be funded by projects - either an external grant or
```

> basic group fund.  There are two ways to write this into a project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
basic group fund.  There are two ways to write this into a project proposal:
```

* As a **purchased service**, like usage of different infrastructures.
  This is flexible, but there is a limit of how much you can include
  in a grant.  Note that indirect costs and overheads by the research
  site are not included, so these prices appear higher to
  cover that.

* As a **research salary**, just like other salaries on your project.
  This has fewer limits, but is less flexible (you get one person for
  a designated time period).

General grant considerations
----------------------------

You can find general boilerplate text to include in your proposals
:doc:`/about/for-proposals`, but you can read below to build it in
even more.

Data Management / Open Science are big deals among some funders right
now, and research engineers are perfect for helping with these things

> because they focus on the how of the work, not the what.  The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because they are experts in the associated technical challenges.  The
```

RSE service can help in the societal impact sections: your outputs
will be more ready to be reused by society.  You could, for example,
promise deliver more types of outputs that aren't exactly novel
science but help society to use your results (e.g. databases,
interactive visualisations, etc.).

Make sure you mention the general Science-IT infrastructure in the

> "research environment" section, as the basic service provided by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"research environment" section, i.e., the basic service provided by
```

Aalto.  You can copy something from the boilerplate text (first link
in this section).

Academy of Finland
------------------

This applies to most general research grants, from the `general terms
and conditions
<https://www.aka.fi/en/research-funding/apply-for-funding/how-to-use-funding/>`__.
Funding may be used to cover costs related to the research plan or
action plan.  The research site must fund basic project facilities -
which is the case at Aalto for basic RSE services.

Interesting terms from the Academy: it urges research data and methods
to be freely available.  6.2.2: "Research data and material produced
with Academy funding in research projects and research infrastructure
projects must be made freely available as soon as possible after the
research results have been published."

* As a service purchase:

  * The research site should provide "basic project facilities", which
    Aalto does.  Justify the extra purchase as beyond the basics.

  * Please see LINK for our general costs, and how many person-months

>     you can get for a given price.  Since estimating amount of effort

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    you can get for a given price.  Since estimating the amount of effort
```

    needed is difficult, :doc:`contact us <request>` and we can
    help you prepare an estimate.

  * Maximum amount: We recommend you include no more than XXXXX as a
    service purchase.  Please see LINK (login required) for our
    prices, when paid via external funding.

  * Justification for funding (include in proposal): "Technical
    specialist work to ensure scientific and societal impact outputs
    follow best practices in software development and research data
    management practices, so that they can be of greatest possible

>     benefit to society."

Reviewer 2: Nice!

  * Flexibility: we will internally invoice in a way compliant with
    Academy guidelines, and can adjust our service based on the time
    period you need.  You don't have to decide the time period in

>     advance (only follow your submitted budget), and the best person

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    advance (only follow your submitted budget), and different RSEs
```

>     can always work on each part of the problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    can work on different parts of the problem, so you always have the best person for the job.
```

* As a RSE salary:

  * "Salaries, fees and indirect employee costs" may be included in
    Academy projects.  These may go to research software engineers,
    which to the academy appear equivalent to "normal" researchers.
    The RSEs *are* researchers.

  * Write in a Research Software Engineer as a salary for a set number
    of months.  You may specify a name as N.N., or contact us for a
    name to include.  We do *not* promise any one person at any one

>     time, but we will work with you however is possible.  See LINK for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    time, but we will work with you as much as possible.  See LINK for
```

For grant applicants
====================

.. warning::

   Grant applicants, please don't rely on this yet.  It will be
   finalized soon.

   This page is currently (2020-03) a draft for feedback.  Please send
   corrections to the person that send this page to you, or rse-group
   at aalto.fi

If you've decided you would like to use the :doc:`research software
engineer <index>` services in your project for a long period, you
might want to write it directly into your grant proposals.  First off,
your research will be better, second it may make your proposal more

> likely to get funded.

Reviewer 4: The first point is surely true, how about rephrasing: "you can assign porting of codes, optimization of them, creating data analysis pipelines and such for the RSEs, while concentrating the main project resources to the actual research question."
I am unsure about the second point - no data to support it.

Author: Updated in latest version.
I'm also not sure about the second part, there is a reason I said "may".  It's been slightly reworded now.

How it works
------------

Short-term services are funded by various departments and schools and
free to projects (part of the "research environment" services).
Longer term should be funded by projects - either an external grant or
basic group fund.  There are two ways to write this into a project:

* As a **purchased service**, like usage of different infrastructures.
  This is flexible, but there is a limit of how much you can include
  in a grant.  Note that indirect costs and overheads by the research
  site are not included, so these prices appear higher to
  cover that.

* As a **research salary**, just like other salaries on your project.
  This has fewer limits, but is less flexible (you get one person for
  a designated time period).

Our prices may seem higher than a young researcher assistant, but with
us you only pay for the actual productive time, and we are multiple

> times more efficient.  We'll also teach your group to work better.

Reviewer 4: I would leave this kind of disclaimer out from the introductory part of the document, not to depress the readers already at the beginning.

General grant considerations
----------------------------

You can find general boilerplate text to include in your proposals
:doc:`/about/for-proposals`, but you can read below to build it in
even more.

Data Management / Open Science are big deals among some funders right
now, and research engineers are perfect for helping with these things

> because since they focus on the how of the work, not the what.  The

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
because they focus on the how of the work, not the what.  The
```

research results have been published."

* As a service purchase:

  * The research site should provide "basic project facilities", which
    Aalto does.  Justify the extra purchase as beyond the basics.

  * Please see LINK for our general costs, and how many person-months
    you can get for a given price.  Since estimating amount of effort
    needed is difficult, :doc:`contact us <request>` and we can
    help you prepare an estimate.

  * Maximum amount: We recommend you include no more than XXXXX as a
    service purchase.  Please see LINK (login required) for our
    prices, when paid via external funding.

  * Justification for funding (include in proposal): "Technical
    specialist work to ensure scientific and societal impact outputs
    follow best practices in software development and research data
    management practices, so that they can be of greatest possible
    benefit to society."

  * Flexibility: we will internally invoice in a way compliant with
    Academy guidelines, and can adjust our service based on the time
    period you need.  You don't have to decide the time period in
    advance (only follow your submitted budget).  Our work will be

>     divided up however is useful to you.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    divided up however if useful to you.
```

Author: I meant it this way but see your point.  Reworded.

* As a RSE salary:

  * "Salaries, fees and indirect employee costs" may be included in
    Academy projects.  These may go to research software engineers,
    which to the academy appear equivalent to "normal" researchers.
    The RSEs *are* researchers.

  * Write in a Research Software Engineer as a salary for a set number
    of months.  You may specify a name as N.N., or contact us for a
    name to include.  We do *not* promise any one person at any one
    time, but we will work with you however is possible.  See LINK for
    costs per person.  You can also :doc:`contact us <request>` to
    discuss how much effort you may need.

  * The RSE and timeframe will be set at the beginning of the grant.
    It is possible to adjust later, but requires a significant amount
    of coordination between different services (thus the preference
    for the service purchase based approach).

  * Note that "We recommend that they be hired for a period of
    employment no shorter than the funding period, un-less a shorter
    contract is necessary for special reasons dictated by the

>     imple-mentation of the research plan or action plan (or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    implementation of the research plan or action plan (or
```

>     equivalent). Short-term re-search, studies or other assignments

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    equivalent). Short-term research, studies or other assignments
```
